---
layout: default
---

James R. Herman, PhD, DABT
--------------------------

### Partner and President

Jim has 20 years of nonclinical drug safety research and development experience
that included serving as a study director, drug development team representative,
safety assessment preparer and reviewer, and successive managerial appointments.

Prior to joining INDS, Jim was Drug Safety Research Site Lead at Pfizer Global
Research and Development in Ann Arbor, MI. In that role, he was responsible for
all personnel, resources, policies and procedures in the following drug safety
department sections: General Toxicology, Pathology, and Investigative Toxicology
(including Clinical Pathology labs).

Jim has significant experience in the regulatory toxicology field in all 3
regions (US, EU, and Japan), and has authored and/or critically reviewed over
100 nonclinical portions of IND and NDA submissions, including sections required
for IBs and product labeling, and in addressing impurity issues.

Joyce Zandee, MS
----------------

### Partner and Chief Operating Officer

Joyce holds an MS in Biostatistics from University of Michigan and a BS in
Mathematics from Hope College. She has more than 20 years of experience in drug
safety, focused on data analysis and visualization, data warehousing, report
automation, resource analysis, and business modeling.

Prior to joining INDS, Joyce was Director of Business & Project Management, Site
Operations Lead, and then Global Performance Excellence site lead in the Drug
Safety department at Pfizer Global Research & Development in Ann Arbor,
Michigan. In these roles, her passion was developing and implementing tools to
facilitate business and scientific decision-making in the evaluation and
characterization of drug safety.

While at Pfizer, Joyce was responsible for developing a web-based compound
management portal, providing a dashboard of project status with the ability to
drill-down to study details. She served as business project manager for a
large-scale data warehousing project, providing subject-matter expertise for
data reporting and web-based interpretations tools. She was the business project
lead for a data warehouse which used Business Intelligence tools to visualize
findings for a given study, to identify patterns across studies for a given
compound, and to understand patterns in historical control data. She served as
subject matter expert for multiple enterprise-wide application development and
implementation projects.

Joyce received Masters' certificates in Project Management and IS/IT Project
Management from Villanova University. She has participated in every phase of
systems life cycle development - from requirements gathering, to application
development, to validation, testing, and implementation.

Steven K. Duddy, PhD
--------------------

### Partner, Corporate Secretary, and Chief Scientific Officer

Steve has over 25 years of toxicology experience in academia and the
pharmaceutical industry. Since 1996 he has focused on nonclinical drug safety
research and compound development, emphasizing investigative research in to
mechanisms of toxicity, clinical pathology, mechanisms of carcinogenesis, and
toxicity issue resolution for nonclinical drug candidates. Steve has
considerable experience as a drug development team representative and as a study
director, developing and implementing experimental and regulatory strategies to
support development of promising preclinical drug candidates. Additionally,
Steve has experience managing laboratory researchers and resources, and he has
published and presented extensively on his research, including contributions to
ILSI/HESI working groups assessing chemically-induced hemangiosarcoma and PPAR
mediated toxicity, and an ACS ProSpectives conference on Mechanisms of
Chemically-Induced Toxicity for Medicinal Chemistry.

Prior to joining INDS, Steve was an Associate Research Fellow in Drug Safety
R&D, Pfizer Global Research and Development in Ann Arbor, MI. He originally
joined Parke-Davis Pharmaceutical Research in 1996, and had enjoyed academic
research appointments at the W. Alton Jones Cell Science Center in Lake Placid,
NY, and the Department of Pathology, University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill,
before making the jump to pharmaceutical research.

Marc B. Bailie, DVM, PhD
------------------------

### Partner and Chief Development Officer

Marc spent eleven years at Parke-Davis Pharmaceutical Research and Pfizer Global
Research & Development developing and leading the Safety Pharmacology Group
within Drug Safety Research and Development. He has extensive experience in a
broad array of models for the evaluation of pharmacologic and toxicological
activity of compounds. He has contributed significantly to numerous task forces,
issue resolution teams and special projects relating to drug development. Marc
has also served on numerous Discovery and Development project teams and was one
of the first to support the filing of a novel Exploratory IND paradigm with the
FDA. He provided scientific direction for safety pharmacology both locally and
on a global basis, and served as expert council for cardiovascular and general
safety pharmacology, both within and outside of Pfizer.

Marc has published over 30 papers in peer-reviewed journals, has served
periodically on the Safety Pharmacology Society Board of Directors since its
inception and has lead and/or participated in several expert working groups
sponsored by ILSI/HESI.

Joe Huetteman, BS
-----------------

### Programmer and Chief Technical Officer

Joe is a highly skilled and knowledgeable information technology professional
with expertise in data warehousing, visualization and analysis, business
modeling and metrics development, and applying informatics technology for
solving business challenges in the healthcare and pharmaceutical industries. Joe
has extensive experience with multiple hardware and software platforms, and for
designing and implementing information technology solutions to drive
productivity, increase quality, reduce costs and meet unmet business and
research needs. During his career, Joe was responsible for planning, developing
and supporting large scale network and applications deployments, along with
product/informatics software launches.

Prior to joining INDS, Joe was the Senior Principal Scientist, Site Lead/Data
Systems at Pfizer Global Research & Development, Ann Arbor Laboratories. While
at Pfizer, Joe was the architect for a large-scale data warehousing, analysis,
and report automation project, and lead a team that designed and implemented a
SAS-based safety pharmacology reporting system. Joe has also served as a Project
Leader, Systems Engineering, Quality Institute at Saint Joseph Mercy Hospital,
Ann Arbor and Manager, Corporate Network at STATPROBE Inc. Joe holds a bachelor
of science degree in computer science from Eastern Michigan University.

Mike Ward, BS
-------------

### Senior IT Consultant

Mike has over 30 years of programming experience using a wide range of
technologies.

Mike is the lead web developer at INDS and Technical Project Lead for the SEND
Explorer application.

Prior to working for INDS, Mike was a Software Engineer for Siemans Medical
Systems for 12 years, responsible for web application development for enterprise
level medical imaging and archive systems. He also designed and developed most
of the reporting technologies used in their medical imaging and archive package,
making extensive use of XML, C\# and related technologies.

Mike holds a bachelor of science degree from the University of Michigan.

Krista K. Greenwood, PhD
------------------------

### Associate Toxicology Consultant

Krista has a PhD in Biochemistry & Molecular Biology and Toxicology from
Michigan State University and a BS in Biology from the University of
Wisconsin-Madison. She most recently finished a Postdoctoral appointment with
The Dow Chemical Company in Midland, MI where she led a research program on the
development of an in vivo rat model for the identification of low molecular
weight respiratory sensitizers.

Krista has previous experience doing clinical research at the University of
Wisconsin-Madison in the Department of Surgery where she was involved in the
Islet Cell Transplant Research Program. She is new to nonclinical drug safety
research and the pharmaceutical industry and is looking forward to bringing her
expertise to this area of toxicology.
