---
layout: default
---

<div style="text-align:center">
  <img src="/assets/images/se-small.jpg" style="margin-bottom: -1em" alt="Send Explorer Logo">
  <h3>Single Study Visualizations</h3>
</div>

<div class="pure-g">
  <div class="pure-u-1-2">
    <p class="thumbtitle">Summary View for Numeric Data</p>
    <a href="/assets/se-images/Slide2.PNG" 
       data-lightbox="slide-2"
       data-title="Summary View for Numeric Data"> 
      <img class="thumbsize" src="/assets/se-images/Slide2.PNG" alt="" />
    </a>
    <p class="thumbsize">…to visualize patterns and trends in numeric data with summary statistics, scatterplot, out of concurrent control range indicator, and % control mean calculations</p>
  </div>
  <div class="pure-u-1-2">
    <p class="thumbtitle">Summary View Detail</p>
    <a href="/assets/se-images/Slide3.PNG" 
       data-lightbox="slide-3"
       data-title="Summary View Detail"> 
      <img class="thumbsize" src="/assets/se-images/Slide3.PNG" alt="" />
    </a>
    <p class="thumbsize">…to review thumbnail visualizations or display detailed view showing distribution of subject data across groups</p>
  </div>
  <div class="pure-u-1-2">
    <p class="thumbtitle">Severity Heatmap</p>
    <a href="/assets/se-images/Slide1.PNG" 
       data-lightbox="slide-1"
       data-title="Severity Heatmap"> 
      <img class="thumbsize" src="/assets/se-images/Slide1.PNG" alt="" />
    </a>
    <p class="thumbsize">…to visualize patterns and trends in both incidence and severity</p>
  </div>
  <div class="pure-u-1-2">
    <p class="thumbtitle">Cross-Domain Subject View</p>
    <a href="/assets/se-images/Slide4.PNG" 
       data-lightbox="slide-4"
       data-title="Cross-Domain Subject View"> 
      <img class="thumbsize" src="/assets/se-images/Slide4.PNG" alt="" />
    </a>
    <p class="thumbsize">…to put a subject’s data into perspective as compared to its own group and control group, on a single day or over time</p>
  </div>
</div>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<div style="text-align:center">
  <img src="/assets/images/se-plus-small.jpg" style="margin-bottom: -1em" alt="Send Explorer Plus Logo">
  <h3>Multi-Study Visualizations</h3>
</div>

<div class="pure-g">
  <div class="pure-u-1-2">
    <p class="thumbtitle">Correlations Matrix</p>
    <a href="/assets/se-images/Slide5.PNG" 
       data-lightbox="slide-5"
       data-title="Correlations Matrix"> 
      <img class="thumbsize" src="/assets/se-images/Slide5.PNG" alt="" />
    </a>
    <p class="thumbsize">…to reveal pairwise correlations of endpoints for selected subjects, identifying those with histopathology findings in tissues of interest.</p>
  </div>
  <div class="pure-u-1-2">
    <p class="thumbtitle">Multi-Study Timecourse Grid</p>
    <a href="/assets/se-images/Slide6.PNG" 
       data-lightbox="slide-6"
       data-title="Multi-Study Timecourse Grid"> 
      <img class="thumbsize" src="/assets/se-images/Slide6.PNG" alt="" />
    </a>
    <p class="thumbsize">…to compare the timecourse pattern of selected endpoint(s) across studies of interest.</p>
  </div>
  <div class="pure-u-1-2">
    <p class="thumbtitle">Histopathology Treemap</p>
    <a href="/assets/se-images/Slide7.PNG" 
       data-lightbox="slide-7"
       data-title="<a href=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UIXnvctzGw8>YouTube video show Muti-Study Histopathology Treemap in action</a>"> 
      <img class="thumbsize" src="/assets/se-images/Slide7.PNG" alt="" />
    </a>
    <p class="thumbsize">…to visualize relative prevalence of histopathology findings across studies.</p>
  </div>
  <div class="pure-u-1-2">
    <p class="thumbtitle">Historical Control Distribution</p>
    <a href="/assets/se-images/under-construction.gif" 
       data-lightbox="slide-8"> 
      <img class="thumbsize" src="/assets/se-images/under-construction.gif" alt="" />
    </a>
    <p class="thumbsize">…to reveal the distribution of selected control data across studies, stratified by fields of interest.</p>
  </div>
</div>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

Integrated Nonclinical Development Solutions, Inc. (INDS, Inc.) is
pleased to announce the release of **SEND Explorer™Product Family
v4.0**.  These validated, web-based applications were designed by
scientists to provide advanced viewing, data summarization, and
visualization capabilities for study data produced in SEND (Standard for
Exchange of Nonclinical Data) format.  

New features for v4.0 include the following:

-   Data Warehouse infrastructure with advanced data administration
    capabilities including term reconciliation, scheduled or on-demand
    data loads, and ability to load data from continually-updated
    sources

-   Enhancements to the Multi-Study Correlations matrix to permit legend
    groups to be shown or hidden, to display histopathology findings for
    selected subjects, and to drill-down to individual subject data

-   Enhanced Summary View to display %Change from Control Group mean

-   A Multi-Study Histopathology Treemap visualization to identify and
    communicate patterns and trends in histopathology data across
    studies

**SEND Explorer Product Family v4.0** provides a scalable solution to
allow your organization to leverage its investment in SEND data. **SEND
Explorer** provides single-study functionality including the ability to
review/QC SEND datasets prior to submission to FDA, generate group
summarizations with scientifically-relevant visualizations to identify
trends and patterns within a study, and review all data for a single
subject to compare vs other subjects in its group or vs control
subjects, to identify patterns within or across data types, at a given
timepoint and over time. **SEND Explorer Plus** includes a database to
extend SEND Explorer functionality to the multi-study environment and
provides powerful yet intuitive cross-study querying capabilities and
multi-study visualizations. **SEND Explorer Warehouse** provides a data
warehouse infrastructure that will enable your organization to combine
legacy/non-SEND data sources with your SEND data, to perform advanced
term reconciliation functionality, or to refresh internal data sources
on a schedule.

**SEND Explorer™** features include:

-   A robust data grid that merges subject and group metadata with
    associated results

-   Advanced data management and query features such as column
    hiding/showing, sorting, and filtering

-   Ability to export all or filtered data to Excel

-   Pivoting of data by timepoint, test code, and/or subject

-   Group summary and incidence calculations based on a user-specified
    group definition

-   Scientifically-relevant data visualizations including scatterplots
    of subject data, group mean bar charts, and Severity Heatmaps™

-   Reference range highlighting and calculated %change from control
    group mean

-   Hyperlink to comments and supplemental qualifiers

-   Hyperlink to multi-domain subject view with tabular and graphical
    displays of data

**SEND Explorer Plus™** includes all of the above features as well as:

-   Straight-forward load interface and study dashboard

-   Fully-compliant SEND-based data model

-   Multi-study/multi-domain data query grid

-   Hyperlinked related records

-   Multi-study Correlations Matrix visualization with tissue-finding
    indicators and drill-down to subject data

-   Multi-study Timecourse Grid visualization permitting comparison of
    endpoint across studies and over time

-   Multi-study Treemap visualization facilitating recognition and
    communication of patterns in histopathology findings.

**SEND Explorer Warehouse™** includes all of the above features as well
as:

-   Administrative tool to allow term reconciliation, to view/modify
    mapped terms, to specify unit transformations, and to identify
    number of decimal places for display

-   Ability to register new source systems and connectors to integrate
    legacy data

-   Ability to load, reload, or delete individual domains or an entire
    study

-   Ability to review load history and load history details to help
    identify and correct data errors

-   Ability to load data on-demand or according to a specified schedule

Products in the **SEND Explorer Product Family v4.0** are now available
for purchase. We offer a site licensing model that does not require
named users nor implement a per-study fee. INDS can host the application
for you or you can host it yourself. Ask us about our pilot evaluation
program!

The SEND Explorer Product Family also includes **SEND Explorer
Express™** (a no cost SEND viewing tool with restricted functionality).
Use SEND Explorer Express to review single-study functionality for two
sample datasets, or upload and review your own SEND dataset. Please
contact <sendexperts@inds-inc.com> for more information on any of these
tools.
