---
layout: post  
title:  A New Way to Define Proarrhythmic Risk? Exploring Human Induced Pluripotent Stem-Cell Derived Cardiomyocytes  
...

by [Krista K Greenwood, PhD](http://inds-inc.com/about/#greenwood)

Originally posted on [Society of Toxicology's Communiqué Blog](http://toxchange.toxicology.org/p/bl/et/blogid=9&blogaid=2006)

Attrition of novel drug candidates due to cardiovascular liabilities
(including proarrhythmic risk due to delayed ventricular repolarization
and Torsades-de-Pointes arrhythmia) remains a hurdle for drug discovery
efforts, a hurdle which may be mitigated by the use of human induced
pluripotent stem-cell derived (hiPSC)-cardiomyocytes.

![Cardiomyocytes 2679987023\_06e8e7e140\_o resize
edit.jpg](http://toxchange.toxicology.org/media/dprhjdbp.jpg)

At present, there generally are two approaches used to indirectly assess
proarrhythmic risk: an *in vitro* human Ether-a-go-go-Related Gene
(hERG) assay and an *in vivo* QT interval assessment.
The *in vitro* hERG assay only examines drug block of the repolarizing
IKr/hERG potassium current, one of multiple cardiac currents that a drug
may block to affect proarrhythmic risk. This
limited\_in vitro\_ assessment provides for high sensitivity, but low
specificity, which may lead to drug candidates being screened out of
drug pipelines inappropriately. Nonclinical \_in vivo\_assessment of QT
interval in cardiovascular safety pharmacology studies has limited
predictive value as well, often necessitating a “Thorough QT” clinical
study later in development. The Thorough QT clinical assessment also has
its limitations, as those studies are done in humans and typically
require large numbers of patients. The cost of these large QT interval
clinical trials is not trivial either, while the data collected about QT
interval is again only a small piece of the story when investigating
proarrhythmic risk of a drug.

The newly proposed Comprehensive *in Vitro* Proarrhythmia Assay (CiPA)
offers a different strategy for defining proarrhythmic risk based upon a
clear understanding of torsadogenic mechanisms beyond simply blocking
hERG/IKr current. With CiPA, human iPSC-cardiomyocytes are employed to
assess drug effects on the cardiac action potential to confirm the
outcome of *in silico* modeling efforts, relying on hiPSC-cardiomyocytes
to provide the integrated drug response from multiple native human
currents in a human-derived cellular preparation. However, according to
Norman Stockbridge, MD, PhD, US Food and Drug Administration (US FDA)
Division of Cardiovascular and Renal Products, these cardiomyocytes
don’t exactly mirror the density and proportions of ion channels found
in normal human adult cardiomyocytes. Therefore, there is a need to
further characterize the assay system and refine how to culture, use,
and interpret data from these hiPSC-cardiomyocytes.

Despite their limitations, hiPSC-cardiomyocytes produce action
potentials, and one can see drug effects when treating the cells. Gary
Gintant, PhD, Abbvie, is optimistic that further advancements in the use
of hiPSC-cardiomyocytes will significantly reduce the need for
cardiovascular safety testing in animals, but there remains much to be
learned about hiPSC-cardiomyocytes to understand the proper conditions
for their use in preclinical safety testing.

[![Cardiomyocytes
logo.png](http://toxchange.toxicology.org/media/nmsjmxzg.png)](http://www.toxicology.org/events/shm/cct/hipc.asp)

To aid in the development of this emergent technology, [“The Use of
Cardiomyocytes for the Assessment of Proarrhythmic Risk” Contemporary
Concepts in Toxicology (CCT)
meeting](http://www.toxicology.org/events/shm/cct/hipc.asp) will be held
October 25‒26, 2016, in Arlington, Virginia. The CCT Chair Douglas
Keller, PhD, DABT, Sanofi, says that the workshop has three main focal
points:

1.  Understanding the phenotype and limitations of working with
    the hiPSC-cardiomyocytes.
2.  Learning how researchers are using these cells currently and
    facilitating information sharing among users.
3.  Investigating advanced uses, such as what hiPSC-cardiomyocytes
    potentially can be used for in the future.

Through workshops such as this, the CCT initiative aims to promote
development of cutting-edge tools and approaches to toxicology and
risk/safety assessment to enhance the professional and scientific
development of toxicologists and other scientists. Stay tuned for more
opportunities to broaden your horizons!
