---
layout: post  
title: "We're Hiring!"
---

Novel and exciting opportunity that is markedly different from a
traditional post-doctoral experience.

Integrated Nonclinical Development Solutions, Inc. (INDS, Inc.), a drug
discovery and development consulting group established in 2007 and
located in Ann Arbor, Michigan, has an immediate opening for a
post-doctoral fellow.

The successful candidate will have a PhD in toxicology or closely
related discipline and evidence of superior skills in problem solving,
data integration and most importantly will have exceptional scientific
writing capabilities.

A working knowledge of drug discovery/development and regulatory
guidelines applicable to drug development, experience in nonclinical
program design and study execution, or expertise in grant preparations
and/or regulatory document (Pre-IND, IND, IMPD, NDA) preparation is
desirable.

The successful candidate will have the opportunity to work as part of
our experienced team on projects across a broad range of therapeutic
areas and stages of development. The successful candidate must have
strong communications skills as he/she may interact with both domestic
and international pharma clients.

The duration of this opportunity is 2 years, with a potential for
extension and, for the appropriate individual, a long term position at
INDS Inc. We offer an excellent collaborative environment, competitive
salary, and outstanding benefits. INDS Inc. is an equal opportunity
employer.

Please send your CV to <jobs@inds-inc.com>.
